CHEAP COFFEE SIMULATION 

Copyright © 2011 

Sina Molazemhosseini (homh@kth.se)

Default Numbers
FOR RUNNING THE PROGRAM USE NETBEANS OR IF YOU WANT TO USE COMMAND PROMPT DO THIS:
java xphone 98987 3600 100 200 10 0

INTRODUCTION

Our model represents a Distribute Event Simulation of a mobile network for a
highway with xed length and a xed number of base stations. Passing vehicles
can start phone calls throughout the highway. Each call encapsulates the time of
the call, the speed of the vehicle, the duration of the call and the position of the
vehicle from the start of the highway.  Each base station has a specic number
of channels, some ordinary and some reserved that can be assigned to the cars
nearest to them.  Base stations cover the highway monotonously.  They do not
overlap and there’s no area that’s not being covered by a base station (where a
base station’s territory ends, the adjacent base stations territory begins).
Upon making a call, if there capacity of the base station is occupied with
other calls, the call is blocked.  If a passing cars moves from the territory of a
base station to the territory of the next base station, then the call must also
be transferred to the new base station.  This event is called a handover.  If an
already established call moves to a new base station territory but is unable to
nd an empty channel on it, the call is considered as dropped.
What we are trying to do here is to simulate the problem and try to change
our variables so that we have the minimum amount of blocked calls or missed
calls.

• seed:  is the single seed of the simulation. All required seeds for di?erent streams of random
numbers are derived from this seed.  Given an input, different execution of your simulator
should produce exactly the same output.
• length:  is the time length of each replication of the simulation.
• replication:  is the number of replications.
• warm-up:  is the warm-up period in seconds.
• channel:  is the number of channels in each base-station.
• reserved:  is the number of reserved channels for handovers.


SYSTEM REUIREMENTS

OS Supported:
•Windows XP/Vista/7/Linux/Mac OS

Hardware Requirements:
•Intel Pentium II 350MHz or above, or any Athlon
•64 MB RAM or above

INSTALLATION PREREQUISITES

In order to use this product you must have a
preferably updated version of Java installed on your machine.  You can obtain
Java by visiting the following URL: www.java.com/getjava/ This product is a
platform free application and the users may run it under any operating system
(Windows, Macintosh, Linux, etc). 

The projects works best if used with Netbeans IDE 6.9.1. The arguments needed to 
run the project is already provided in the “Configuration Menu” of the project.

FILES

The source folder contains the following classes:
* BtsStatus.java
* Event.java
* Arrival.java
* RandomNumberGenerator.java
* RandomNumberGeneratorG22.java
* Xphone.java

DIRECTIONS

The user may extract the folder and use the application in any
desired directory.  There are no specific locations needed to install and use the
product. However the package content may not be manipulated by the users.
Otherwise the application may face run-time difficulties.
Usage License: You are completely free to use the source code and features
of this product in any commercial or non-commercial format.  You may NOT
sell or give away any files found in this package without permission.
You are free (and encouraged) to make your own interpretations and create a
new open-source version of the product.  You are free to redistribute your own
version as you wish.
